Add `TabBar.tabAlignment` migration guide (#8700)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/tab-alignment.md

---
title: Customizing tabs alignment using the new TabBar.tabAlignment property
description: Introducing the TabBar.tabAlignment property.
---

## Summary

Using `TabBar.tabAlignment` to customize the alignment of tabs in a `TabBar`.

## Context

The `TabBar.tabAlignment` property sets where a Material 3 `TabBar` places tabs.
The `TabAlignment` enum has the following values:

* `TabAlignment.start`: Aligns the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar`.
* `TabAlignment.startOffset`: Aligns the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar` with an offset of `52.0` pixels.
* `TabAlignment.center`: Aligns the tabs to the center of the `TabBar`.
* `TabAlignment.fill`: Aligns the tabs to the start and stretches the tabs to fill the fixed `TabBar`.

The scrollable `TabBar` supports the following alignments:

* `TabAlignment.start`
* `TabAlignment.startOffset`
* `TabAlignment.center`

The fixed `TabBar` supports the following alignments:

* `TabAlignment.fill`
* `TabAlignment.center`

When you set `ThemeData.useMaterial3` to `true`,
a scrollable `TabBar` aligns tabs as `TabAlignment.startOffset` by default.

> To change this alignment, set the `TabBar.tabAlignment` property.

Reviewer: You can also use the theme, correct?

Author: That's right.

---
title: Customizing tabs alignment using the new TabBar.tabAlignment property
description: Introducing the TabBar.tabAlignment property.
---

## Summary

Using `TabBar.tabAlignment` to customize the alignment of tabs in a `TabBar`.

## Context

> The `TabBar.tabAlignment` property is introduced to customize the alignment of tabs in a Material 3 `TabBar`. The `TabAlignment` enum has the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TabBar.tabAlignment` property was introduced to customize the alignment of tabs in a Material 3 `TabBar`. The `TabAlignment` enum has the following values:
```

* `TabAlignment.start`: Aligns the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar`.
* `TabAlignment.startOffset`: Aligns the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar` with an offset of `52.0` pixels.
* `TabAlignment.center`: Aligns the tabs to the center of the `TabBar`.

> * `TabAlignment.fill`: Aligns the tabs to the start and stretches the tabs to fill the fixed `TabBar`.

Reviewer: Should these descriptions also mention which ones work with `isScrollable` and which ones don't?

When `ThemeData.useMaterial3` are set to `true`, the default tab alignment for a scrollable `TabBar` is `TabAlignment.startOffset`. This can be changed by setting the `TabBar.tabAlignment` property.

## Description of change

When the `TabBar.isScrollable` and `ThemeData.useMaterial3` are set to `true`, the tabs in a scrollable `TabBar` defaults to `TabAlignment.startOffset` which aligns the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar` with an offset of `52.0` pixels. This is a change from the previous behavior, where the tabs were aligned to the start of the scrollable `TabBar` when there are more tabs to display than the available width.

## Migration guide

> A Material 3 scrollable `TabBar` uses `TabAlignment.startOffset` as the default tab alignment which aligns the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar` with an offset of `52.0` pixels.

Reviewer 2: **issues:** 
- Write as shorter sentences per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/accessibility#ease-of-reading).
- Use [semantic breaks](https://sembr.org).

```suggestion
A Material 3 scrollable `TabBar` uses `TabAlignment.startOffset` as the default tab alignment.
This aligns the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar` with an offset of `52.0` pixels.
```

> To align the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar`, without an offset of `52.0` pixels, set `TabBar.tabAlignment` to `TabAlignment.start`.
> The following code snippets show how to use `TabBar.tabAlignment` to align the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar`:

Reviewer 2: **issues:** 
- Write as shorter sentences per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/accessibility#ease-of-reading).
- Use [semantic breaks](https://sembr.org).

```suggestion
To align the tabs to the start of the scrollable `TabBar`, set `TabBar.tabAlignment` to `TabAlignment.start`.
This change also removes the `52.0` pixel offset.
The following code snippets show how to use `TabBar.tabAlignment` to align the tabs
to the start of the scrollable `TabBar`:
```
